UK Immigration Rules - Appendix Global Talent
Source: GOV.UK - https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-rules
================================================================================



 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 Cookies on GOV.UK

 
 
We use some essential cookies to make this website work.

We’d like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services.

We also use cookies set by other sites to help us deliver content from their services.

 You have accepted additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time.

 You have rejected additional cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time.

 

 

 

 
 

 Accept additional cookies

 

 Reject additional cookies

 View cookies
 

 
 
 Hide cookie message
 
 

 

 Skip to main content

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 Immigration Rules

 
 
 From:
 
 Home Office

 
 Published
 25 February 2016
 Updated:
 
 11 November 2025 - See all updates

 
 

 
 
 
 
 Search this manual
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Search
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 Immigration Rules Appendix Global Talent

 

 
 
 The Global Talent route is for people aged 18 or over in the field of science, engineering, humanities, social science, medicine, digital technology or arts and culture who can show they have exceptional talent or exceptional promise.

 

 
 
 
 For most individuals there is a two-part application process. The first part is an application for endorsement (guidance on the relevant evidence and its format is set out from time to time by the Secretary of State on gov.uk/global talent); the second part is an application for entry clearance or permission to stay.

A person can make the application for endorsement before making the application for permission, or they can make both applications at the same time.

Alternatively, a person who has been awarded a prestigious prize listed in Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes is considered as showing exceptional talent and is therefore not required to apply for an endorsement.

A dependent partner and dependent children can apply under this route.

Global Talent is a route to settlement.

 
 
 
 Part 1- Global Talent Endorsement application

 

 
 Validity requirements for a Global Talent Endorsement application

 
 GTE 1.1. A person applying for Global Talent endorsement must apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified form “Apply for Global Talent endorsement - stage 1.

 GTE 1.2. An application for Global Talent endorsement must meet both the following requirements:
 
 (a) the endorsement application fee must have been paid; and

 (b) the application must be for endorsement by an endorsing body in the field relevant to the applicant.

 
 

 GTE 1.3. An application which does not meet all the validity requirements for a Global Talent endorsement may be rejected as invalid and not considered.

 

Eligibility requirements for a Global Talent Endorsement application

GTE 2.1. An application for endorsement must be made under one of the fields below and must meet the endorsement requirements for that field.

 
 
 Arts and Culture endorsement

 

 
 Arts and Culture field track record requirements

 
 GTE 3.1. An applicant for endorsement in the field of Arts and Culture must satisfy the endorsing body that they have either been recognised as an exceptional talent, or someone with exceptional promise, in the field of arts and culture and:
 
 (a) be professionally engaged in producing outstanding performed, presented, distributed or internationally exhibited work; and

 (b) show regular professional engagement in their field in the last 5 years; and

 (c) if evidencing exceptional talent, show a substantial track record in at least 2 countries; and

 (d) if evidencing exceptional promise:
 
 (i) be at an early stage in their career; and

 (ii) show a developing track record in 1 or more countries.

 
 

 
 

 

Arts and Culture field track record evidential requirements

 
 GTE 3.2. An applicant must provide all of the following:
 
 (a) a CV which sets out their professional arts and culture career to date; and

 (b) 3 dated letters of recommendation supporting the Global talent application of which:
 
 (i) 2 must be from well-established arts and culture organisations that the applicant has worked with in an artistic capacity, who are acknowledged as experts in the applicant’s field, and at least one of the organisations must be based in the UK; and

 (ii) the third must be from another well-established arts and culture organisation, or an individual that the applicant has worked with in an artistic capacity, who has recognised experience in the applicant’s field.

 
 

 
 

 GTE 3.3. An applicant who is evidencing exceptional talent in their field must provide at least two of the following:
 
 (a) evidence from at least 2 countries (which can include their country of residence) of 2 or more examples of significant media recognition for their work as an individual or as a named member of a group or as a contributor; or

 (b) evidence of winning, or significantly contributing to winning, at least 1 international award for excellence; or

 (c) evidence from at least 2 countries (which can include their country of residence) of proof of professional appearances, performances, publications or exhibitions considered internationally significant in their field, or evidence of extensive international distribution and sales for their work as an individual or as a named member of a group or as a contributor.

 
 

 GTE 3.4. An applicant who is evidencing exceptional promise in their field must provide at least 2 of the following:
 
 (a) evidence from at least 1 country (which can include their country of residence) of at least 2 examples of recent media recognition for their work as an individual, as a named member of a group or as a contributor; or

 (b) evidence of winning, or significantly contributing to winning, or significantly contributing to being nominated or shortlisted for, or being nominated or shortlisted for, at least 1 international award for excellence; or

 (c) evidence from at least 1 country (which can include their country of residence) of proof of professional appearances, performances, publications or exhibitions recognised in their field, or evidence of international distribution and sales for their work as an individual, as a named member of a group or as a contributor.

 
 

 

 
 
 Architecture endorsement

 

 
 Architecture field track record requirement

 
 GTE 4.1. An applicant for endorsement in the field of Architecture must satisfy the endorsing body that they have either been recognised as an exceptional talent, or someone with exceptional promise, in the field of architecture and:
 
 (a) be professionally engaged in producing outstanding presented, published or internationally exhibited work; and

 (b) show regular professional engagement in their field in the last 5 years; and

 (c) show either a substantial track record in at least 2 countries if evidencing exceptional talent, or a developing track record in at least 1 country if evidencing exceptional promise.

 
 

 

Architecture field track record evidential requirements

 
 GTE 4.2. An applicant must provide all of the following:
 
 (a) a CV which sets out their professional architecture career to date; and

 (b) 3 dated letters of recommendation supporting the Global Talent application of which:
 
 (i) 2 must be from well-established architecture organisations that the applicant has worked with in an architectural capacity, who are acknowledged as experts in the applicant’s field, and at least one1 of the organisations must be based in the UK; and

 (ii) the third must be from another well-established architecture organisation, or an individual, that the applicant has worked with in an architectural capacity, who has recognised expertise in the applicant’s field.

 
 

 
 

 GTE 4.3. An applicant who is evidencing exceptional talent in their field must provide at least 2 of the following:
 
 (a) evidence of winning, or significantly contributing to winning, at least 1 international award for excellence; or

 (b) evidence from at least 2 countries (which can include their country of residence) of a minimum of 2 examples of significant media recognition for their work as an individual or as a named member of a group or as a contributor; or

 (c) evidence from at least 2 countries (which can include their country of residence) of a minimum of 2 examples of publications or exhibitions considered internationally significant in the applicant’s field, for their work as an individual or as a named member of a group or as a contributor.

 
 

 GTE 4.4. An applicant who is evidencing exceptional promise in their field must provide at least 2 of the following:
 
 (a) evidence of winning, or significantly contributing to winning, or significantly contributing to being nominated or shortlisted for, or being nominated or shortlisted for, at least 1 international award for excellence in the last 5 years; or

 (b) evidence from at least 1 country (which can include their country of residence) of a minimum of 2 examples of recent media recognition for their work as an individual or as a named member of a group or as a contributor; or

 (c) evidence from at least 1 country (which can include their country of residence) of a minimum of 2 examples of publications or exhibitions in the last 5 years considered internationally significant in the applicant’s field for their work as an individual or as a named member of a group or as a contributor.

 
 

 

 
 
 Fashion Design Industry endorsement

 

 
 Fashion Design Industry field track record requirement

 
 GTE 5.1. An applicant for endorsement in the field of fashion design must satisfy the endorsing body that they have either been recognised as an exceptional talent, or someone with exceptional promise, in the field of fashion design and:
 
 (a) have a leading design role in the fashion business; and

 (b) show regular professional engagement in the fashion design industry in the last 5 years; and

 (c) if evidencing exceptional talent, show professional engagement in producing outstanding work that has been sold or exhibited internationally through catwalk or other exhibitions and a substantial track record in at least 2 countries; and

 (d) if evidencing exceptional promise, show a developing track record in at least 1 country and professional engagement in producing outstanding work that has been recognised by leading industry players.

 
 

 

Fashion Design Industry field track record evidential requirements

 
 GTE 5.2. An applicant must provide all of the following:
 
 (a) a CV which sets out their professional fashion design career to date; and

 (b) 3 dated letters of recommendation supporting the Global Talent application of which:
 
 (i) 2 must be from well-established fashion organisations that the applicant has worked with in a fashion design capacity, who are acknowledged as experts in the applicant’s field, and at least one1 of the organisations must be based in the UK; and

 (ii) the third must be from another well-established fashion organisation, or an individual, that the applicant has worked with in a fashion design capacity, who has recognised expertise in the applicant’s field.

 
 

 
 

 GTE 5.3. An applicant who is evidencing exceptional talent in the fashion design industry field must provide at least 2 of the following:
 
 (a) evidence of winning, or significantly contributing to winning, or being nominated or shortlisted for, or significantly contributing to being nominated or shortlisted for, at least 1 international award for excellence; or

 (b) evidence from at least 2 countries (which can include their country of residence) of at least 2 examples of significant media recognition for their individual work; or

 (c) evidence of catwalk shows, presentations or exhibitions considered internationally significant in the fashion design industry; or

 (d) evidence of extensive distribution and sales of their collections via internationally renowned retailers, their retail outlet or their ecommerce platform.

 
 

 GTE 5.4. An applicant who is evidencing exceptional promise in the fashion design industry must provide at least 2 of the following:
 
 (a) at least 2 examples of recent UK or international media recognition for their individual work or their work as a contributing designer; or

 (b) evidence of support and sponsorship through one of the following:
 
 (i) British Fashion Council support schemes; or

 (ii) Fashion East support scheme; or (iii)The Sarabande Foundation; or

 (iv) The Centre of Fashion Enterprise; or

 (v) an international organisation which the British Fashion Council is satisfied operates as its counterpart , outside of the UK; or

 
 

 (c) evidence of at least 1 order placed by a luxury retailer or boutique; or

 (d) at least 2 examples of evidence of recognition by leading industry players of an exceptional graduating collection.

 
 

 

 
 
 Film and Television endorsement

 

 
 Film and Television field track record requirement

 
 GTE 6.1. An applicant for an exceptional talent endorsement in the field of Film and Television must satisfy the endorsing body that they have been recognised as an exceptional talent in the field of film and television and show 1 of the following:
 
 (a) that they have won at any time a “Main Award” for their work as an individual which means:
 
 (i) an Academy Award; or

 (ii) a British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA) (film, television, television craft, Cymru, Scotland, Games awards only); or

 (iii) a Golden Globe; or

 (iv) an Emmy Award; or

 
 

 (b) in the last 10 years they have been nominated for, or made a significant contribution to winning, or being nominated for any of the Main Awards; or

 (c) in the last 15 years, they have achieved a minimum of 2 nominations for the Main Awards for their work as an individual; or

 (d) they have notable industry recognition for at least 2 separate productions through international distribution sales, media recognition and a specified combination of awards from Pact’s Notable Industry Recognition Awards List, as set out in https://www.pact.co.uk/applying-for-talent-visas/notable-industry-recognition-awards-list.html

 
 

 

Film and Television field track record evidential requirements

 
 GTE 6.2. An applicant must provide all of the following:
 
 (a) a CV which sets out their professional film and television career to date; and

 (b) 3 dated letters of recommendation supporting the Global Talent application of which:
 
 (i) 2 must be from well-established film and television organisations that the applicant has worked with in a film and television capacity, who are acknowledged as experts in the applicant’s field, and at least one of the organisations must be based in the UK; and

 (ii) the third must be from another well-established film and television organisation, or an individual, that the applicant has worked with in a film and television capacity, who has recognised expertise in the applicant’s field.

 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 Digital Technology endorsement

 

 
 Digital Technology field track record requirement

 
 GTE 7.1. An applicant for endorsement in the field of digital technology must:
 
 (a) satisfy the endorsing body that they have either been recognised as an exceptional talent, or someone with exceptional promise, in the field of digital technology in the last 5 years; and

 (b) show one of the following:
 
 (i) if they are a technical applicant, that they have proven technical expertise with the latest technologies in building, using, deploying or exploiting a technology stack and building technical infrastructure; or

 (ii) if they are a business applicant, that they have proven commercial, investment or product expertise in building digital products or leading investments in significant digital product businesses.

 
 

 
 

 

Digital Technology track record evidential requirements

 
 GTE 7.2. An applicant must provide all of the following:
 
 (a) a CV with career and publication history included; and

 (b) 3 dated letters of recommendation from 3 different well-established individuals acknowledged as experts in the digital technology field, with detailed knowledge of the applicant’s work over a period of 12 months or more, supporting the Global Talent application, which include all of the following:
 
 (i) how the author knows the applicant; and

 (ii) the applicant’s achievements in the relevant field; and

 (iii) how the author considers the applicant shows exceptional talent or promise; and

 (iv) the contribution the applicant would be expected to make to the UK digital economy.

 
 

 
 

 GTE 7.3. An applicant evidencing exceptional talent must provide at least 2 pieces of evidence for 2 of the following:
 
 (a) a proven track record for innovation as a founder or senior executive of a product-led digital technology company or as an employee working on a new digital field or concept; or

 (b) proof of recognition for work beyond the applicant’s occupation that contributes to the advancement of the field; or

 (c) they have made significant technical, commercial or entrepreneurial contributions to the field as a founder, senior executive, board member or employee of a product-led digital technology company; or

 (d) they have demonstrated exceptional ability in the field by academic contributions through research published or endorsed by an expert.

 
 

 GTE 7.4. An applicant evidencing exceptional promise must:
 
 (a) provide at least 2 pieces of evidence for 2 of the following:
 
 (i) innovation as a founder of a product-led digital technology company or as an employee working on a new digital field or concept; or

 (ii) a proof of recognition for work beyond the applicant’s occupation that contributes to the advancement of the field; or

 (iii) they have made significant technical, commercial or entrepreneurial contributions to the field as a founder or employee of a product-led digital technology company; or

 (iv) they have demonstrated exceptional ability in the field by academic contributions through research endorsed by an expert; and

 
 

 (b) be at an early stage in their career.

 
 

 GTE 7.5. An applicant must provide evidence of any commercially successful established businesses, share ownership or businesses dissolved in the last 5 years where the applicant has been a founder or senior executive.

 

 
 
 Science, engineering, humanities, social science and medicine fields endorsement

 

 
 Science, engineering, humanities, social science and medicine fields track record requirement

GTE 8.1. An applicant for endorsement in the field of science, engineering, humanities, social science and medicine must be an active researcher in an academic, industry or government research institution.

 
 
 Fast track endorsement

 

 
 
 
 GTE 8.2. An applicant applying for endorsement on the fast track must provide evidence of one of the following:
 
 (a) that they hold, or have held in the 5 years before the date of application, a peer reviewed research fellowship or award named on the list published by the Royal Society, the Royal Academy of Engineering and the British Academy; or

 (b) that they have been appointed to an eligible academic or research position at an approved UK Higher Education Institution or research institute named on the list published by the Royal Society, the Royal Academy of Engineering and the British Academy; or

 (c) that they will be hosted or employed in a UK research organisation named on the UKRI published list and will provide critical contributions to work supported by a substantial research grant or award from an endorsed funder named on the UKRI published list.

 
 

 GTE 8.3. DELETED.

 GTE 8.4. An applicant applying for endorsement on the fast track under GTE 8.2.(c) must either:
 
 (a) direct independently, or under the supervision of a Principal Investigator, a unique research or innovation project and meet all the following requirements:
 
 (i) they must have a PhD qualification or equivalent research experience (including industrial or clinical research); and

 (ii) they must actively participate in a relevant field in a University, research institute or industry; and

 (iii) they must have their name or post listed on the grant or award as the Principal or co-investigator, Researcher Co-investigator, Post-doctoral researcher or Research Assistant, or an equivalent position acceptable to UKRI; or

 
 

 (b) make critical contributions to research by providing core technical or domain excellence or in developing new technologies and methodologies and meet both the following requirements:
 
 (i) they must have a UK bachelor’s degree or equivalent overseas research degree or equivalent research experience (including industrial or clinical research); and

 (ii) they must have research experience within a University, Research Institute or Industry.

 
 

 
 

 

Fast Track endorsement - evidential requirements

GTE 8.5. An applicant on the fast track applying under GTE 8.2.(a) must provide written confirmation from an awarding body named on the list published by the Royal Society, the Royal Academy of Engineering and the British Academy that they hold, or have held in the last 5 years, an eligible peer reviewed fellowship or award.

 
 GTE 8.6. An applicant on the fast track applying under GTE 8.2.(b) must hold an eligible academic or research position at an approved UK Higher Education Institution or Research Institute named on the list published by the Royal Society, the Royal Academy of Engineering and the British Academy and they must provide both:
 
 (a) a job description setting out the duties and responsibilities of the position; and

 (b) a statement of guarantee from the Director of Human Resources, or equivalent, which confirms:
 
 (i) the job was advertised, and an open competition was held, or where it was not, an explanation as to why not; and

 (ii) the applicant has accepted the job offer; and

 (iii) the job title and department in which the applicant will be based; and

 (iv) the applicant:
 
 (1) has responsibility for academic, research or innovation leadership and development; or

 (2) will direct or lead an individual or team research project or research programme of work; or

 (3) will direct or lead an individual or team innovation project or innovation programme of work; and

 
 

 (v) at least two references were received; and

 (vi) at least three academic, research or innovation representatives were on the interview panel(s); and

 (vii) at least one expert in the applicant’s field was on the interview panel(s), or at least one relevant expert, independent of the employing institution, was consulted before the job offer was made.

 
 

 
 

 GTE 8.7. An applicant on the fast track applying under GTE 8.2.(c) must provide a declaration from the Director of Human Resources, or equivalent at the UKRI-approved UK research organisation which confirms all the following:
 
 (a) that the applicant has accepted the job offer or hosting agreement; and

 (b) the job title and department in which the applicant will be based; and

 (c) that there is at least one year remaining on their employment contract or hosting agreement; and

 (d) that they will provide critical contributions to work supported by a substantial research grant or award from an endorsed funder; and

 (e) that they are essential to the execution of the grant or award; and

 (f) that at least 50% of the applicant’s time will be spent working on the grant or award by the endorsed funder (Principal investigators and co-investigators can aggregate time spent on multiple eligible awards or grants to demonstrate this requirement); and

 (g) that a robust recruitment process has been completed where the applicant was not named on the grant application.

 
 

 GTE 8.7A. An applicant on the fast track applying under GTE 8.2.(c) must show that the grant or award from an endorsed funder is worth at least £30,000, covers a minimum of two years; and is either funded by a one-off grant or award that has been won in open competition or attributed to a large institutional, renewable award that is subject to periodic peer review, by either:
 
 (a)providing a link to the grant or award on a UKRI-approved database the details on which would be checked by UKRI against the above requirements; or

 (b)providing written confirmation of the grant or award from the endorsed funder that the above requirements are met.

 
 

 

 
 
 Full peer review endorsement

 

 
 
 
 GTE 8.8. An applicant evidencing exceptional talent under full peer review endorsement must satisfy the endorsing body they have been recognised as an exceptional talent in the field of science, engineering, humanities, social science or medicine; and must:
 
 (a) be an active researcher in a relevant field, typically in a university, research institute or in industry; and

 (b) have a PhD or equivalent research experience (including industrial or clinical research).

 
 

 GTE 8.9. An applicant evidencing exceptional promise under full peer review endorsement must satisfy the endorsing body they have been recognised as having exceptional promise in the field of science, engineering, humanities, social science or medicine; and must:
 
 (a) be an active researcher in a relevant field, typically in a university, research institute or in industry; and

 (b) have a PhD or equivalent research experience (including industrial or clinical research); and

 (c) be at an early stage in their career.

 
 

 

Full peer review endorsement evidential requirements

 
 GTE 8.10. A full peer review endorsement applicant must:
 
 (a) provide a CV which sets out their career and publication history; and

 (b) provide a letter of personal recommendation from an eminent person resident in the UK supporting the Global Talent application which includes all of the following:
 
 (i) how the author knows the applicant; and

 (ii) the applicant’s achievements in the relevant field; and

 (iii) how the author considers the applicant shows exceptional talent or promise; and

 (iv) the contribution the applicant would be expected to make to UK research and innovation excellence and wider society; and

 
 

 (c) if evidencing exceptional talent, provide a letter from an additional eminent person in the applicant’s field, which includes all of the following:
 
 (i) a statement confirming that the author is a senior member of a reputable UK organisation concerned with research or innovation in the applicant’s field; and

 (ii) how the author considers the applicant’s work to show exceptional talent; and

 (iii) the contribution the applicant would be expected to make to UK research or innovation excellence and wider society; and

 (iv) a statement confirming that the author’s assessment is provided on the basis of their capacity as an objective expert in their field and is an objective assessment of the applicant’s reputation in the field, notwithstanding any personal knowledge they may have of the applicant or any direct involvement they may have (or previously have had) in the applicant’s work.

 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 Part 2- Application for entry clearance or permission on the Global Talent Route

 

 
 Validity Requirements for Global Talent route

GT 1.1. A person applying for entry clearance or permission to stay on the Global Talent route must apply online on the specified form on gov.uk website as follows:

 
 
 Applicant
 Specified form
 

 
 
 
 EEA national with a chipped passport
 Either: • Global Talent using the UK Immigration: ID Check app (when available); or • the forms listed below for applicants outside or inside the UK (as relevant)
 

 
 Applicants outside the UK
 Global Talent visa – stage 2
 

 
 Applicants inside the UK
 Global Talent permission to stay – stage 2
 

 

 
 GT 1.2. An application for entry clearance or permission to stay on the Global Talent route must meet all the following requirements:
 
 (a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must have been paid; and

 (b) the applicant must have provided biometrics when required; and

 (c) the applicant must have provided a passport or other travel document which satisfactorily establishes their identity and nationality; and

 (d)the applicant must have been issued with an endorsement letter by a Home Office approved endorsing body or have been awarded a prize listed in Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes; and

 (e)if applying for the first grant of permission on the Global Talent route using an endorsement letter, the date of application must be no more than 3 months after the date on the endorsement letter; and

 (f) the applicant’s endorsement or prize must not have been withdrawn or suspended.

 
 

 

GT 1.3. If the applicant has in the last 12 months before the date of application received an award from a Government or international scholarship agency covering both fees and living costs for study in the UK, they must provide written consent to the application from that Government or agency.

GT 1.4. The applicant must be aged 18 or over on the date of application.

 
 GT 1.5. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant must be in the UK on the date of application.

 GT 1.5ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant must not have, or have last been granted, permission:
 
 (a) as a Visitor; or

 (b) as a Short-term Student; or

 (c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or

 (d) as a Seasonal Worker; or

 (e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or

 (f) outside the Immigration Rules.

 
 

 

 
 GT 1.5A. An applicant who is applying for permission to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student, must fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the date of application:
 
 (a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed the course of study for which the Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or

 (b) Condition B: the applicant must:
 
 (i) be studying a full-time course of study leading to the award of a PhD with a higher education provider which has a track record of compliance; and

 (ii) have completed at least 24 months of study on that course.

 
 

 
 

 

GT 1.6. An application which does not meet all the validity requirements for the Global Talent route may be rejected as invalid and not considered.

 
 
 Suitability Requirements for Global Talent route

 

 
 GT 2.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under Part Suitability.

 
 GT 2.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant must not be:
 
 (a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be disregarded; or

 (b) on immigration bail

 
 

 

 
 
 Eligibility Requirements for Global Talent route

 

 
 Entry requirements for Global Talent route

GT 3.1. A person seeking to come to the UK on the Global Talent route must apply for and obtain entry clearance on the Global Talent route before their arrival in the UK.

GT 3.2. A person applying for entry clearance on the Global Talent route must, if Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate confirming that they have undergone screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not present in them.

Points requirement for Global Talent route

GT 4.1. An applicant applying for entry clearance or permission to stay must be awarded 70 points in the table below.

 
 
 Requirement
 Points available
 

 
 
 
 An applicant making an initial application not relying on an endorsement: • has been awarded a qualifying prize listed in Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes.
 70
 

 
 An applicant making an initial application relying on an endorsement: • has been issued with an endorsement letter by an endorsing body; and • the date of application is no more than 3 months after the date on the endorsement letter; and • the endorsement has not been withdrawn by the endorsing body.
 70
 

 
 An applicant applying for an extension of their permission: • has met the earned money requirement; and • if they were granted their initial application using an endorsement, has not had their endorsement withdrawn by the endorsing body.
 70
 

 
 Total number of points required in each case
 70
 

 

GT 4.1ZA. An applicant who has held permission on the Global Talent route in the 12 months immediately before the date of application will be considered under the extension of permission requirements in GT 5.1.

Points for initial application on the Global Talent route

 
 GT 4.1A. Applicants relying on a prize in Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes to score points must meet both of the following requirements:
 
 (a) they must be the named recipient of the prize (prizes given to an organisation or group the applicant is associated with are not acceptable); and

 (b) the prize issued by the relevant body must not have been withdrawn or suspended.

 
 

 

 
 GT 4.2. Applicants relying on an endorsement to score points must meet both of the following requirements:
 
 (a) the endorsement issued by the endorsing body must not have been withdrawn; and

 (b) the endorsing body must continue to be approved by the Home Office on the date of decision.

 
 

 

GT 4.3. If the requirements in GT4.1A or GT 4.2. are met 70 points will be awarded for an initial application on the Global Talent route.

Points for extension of stay on the Global Talent route

 
 GT 5.1. An applicant who has, or last had, permission on the Global Talent route and is applying for an extension of permission must meet the following requirements:
 
 (a) the applicant must have earned money in the UK during their last period of permission in either:
 
 (i) a field related to the subject matter of their prize if they were granted their initial application using a prize listed in Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes; or

 (ii) the field in which they were previously endorsed in the Global Talent route if they were granted their initial application using an endorsement; and

 
 

 (b) if the applicant was granted their initial application using an endorsement:
 
 (i) the endorsement letter issued by a Home Office approved endorsing body must not have been withdrawn; and

 (ii) the endorsing body must continue to be approved by the Home Office on the date of decision.

 
 

 
 

 

GT 5.2. DELETED.

GT 5.3. If the requirements in GT 5.1. are met 70 points will be awarded for an application for an extension of stay on the Global Talent route.

Decision on an application on the Global Talent route

GT 6.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the suitability and eligibility requirements for the Global Talent route are met the application will be granted, otherwise the application will be refused.

GT 6.2. If the application is refused the person can apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR: Administrative Review.

Period of grant on the Global Talent route

GT 7.1. Permission will be granted for the period of years the applicant requests, up to a maximum of 5 years on each application.

GT 7.2. There is no limit on the total period of permission that may be granted on the Global Talent route.

Conditions of grant on the Global Talent route

 
 GT 7.3. The grant will be subject to all the following conditions:
 
 (a) no access to public funds; and

 (b) work (including self-employment and voluntary work) permitted except for employment as a professional sportsperson (including as a sports coach); and

 (c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition in Appendix ATAS.

 (d) DELETED

 
 

 

 
 
 Settlement by a person on the Global Talent route

 

 
 Validity requirements for settlement by a person on the Global Talent route

GT 8.1. A person applying for settlement on the Global Talent route must apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified form “Settle in the UK in various immigration categories: form SET(O)”.

 
 GT 8.2. An application for settlement on the Global Talent route must meet all the following requirements:
 
 (a) any fee must have been paid; and

 (b) the applicant must have provided any required biometrics; and

 (c) the applicant must have provided a passport or other travel document which satisfactorily establishes their identity and nationality; and

 (d) the applicant must be in the UK; and

 (e) the applicant’s endorsement or prize listed in Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes must not have been withdrawn or suspended.

 
 

 

GT 8.3. The applicant must have, or have last been granted, permission on the Global Talent route.

GT 8.4. An application which does not meet all the validity requirements for settlement on the Global Talent route may be rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for settlement by a person on the Global Talent route

GT 9.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under Part Suitability.

 
 GT 9.2. The applicant must not be:
 
 (a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be disregarded; or

 (b) on immigration bail.

 
 

 

 
 
 Eligibility requirements for settlement by a person on the Global Talent route

 

 
 Endorsement requirement for settlement by a person on the Global Talent route

GT 10.1. If the applicant was granted their initial application using an endorsement, the endorsement must not have been withdrawn by the endorsing body.

 
 GT 10.2. The applicant must have earned money in the UK during their last period of permission in the field in either:
 
 (a) a field related to the subject matter of their prize if they were granted for their initial application using a prize listed in Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes; or

 (b) the field in which they were previously endorsed in the Global Talent route if they were granted their initial application using an endorsement.

 
 

 

Qualifying period requirement for settlement by a person on the Global Talent route

 
 GT 11.1. The applicant must have spent a continuous period of 3 years in the UK if:
 
 (a) they were endorsed by the Royal Society, British Academy, Royal Academy of Engineering or UKRI; or

 (b) they were endorsed under the exceptional talent criteria by Arts Council England or Tech Nation; or

 (c) they were granted their initial application using a prize listed in Appendix Global Talent: Prestigious Prizes.

 
 

 

GT 11.2. The applicant must have spent a continuous period of 5 years in the UK if they were endorsed under the exceptional promise criteria by Arts Council England or Tech Nation.

 
 GT 11.3. The continuous period must consist of time with permission (not as a dependant) on any of (or any combination of), the following routes:
 
 (a) Global Talent; or

 (b) Innovator Founder; or

 (c) Skilled Worker; or

 (d) T2 Minister of Religion; or

 (e) International Sportsperson; or

 (f) Tier 1, other than Tier 1 (Graduate Entrepreneur); or

 (g) Scale-up; or

 (h) Representative of an Overseas Business.

 
 

 

Continuous residence requirement for settlement by a person on the Global Talent route

GT 12.1. The applicant must meet the continuous residence requirement as specified in Appendix Continuous Residence.

English language requirement for settlement by a person on the Global Talent route

GT 13.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant must show English language ability on the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages in speaking and listening to at least level B1.

GT 13.2. The applicant must show they meet the English language requirement as specified in Appendix English Language.

Knowledge of life in the UK requirement for settlement by a person on the Global Talent route

GT 14.1. The applicant must meet the Knowledge of Life in the UK requirement as set out in Appendix KOL UK.

Decision on an application for settlement as a person on the Global Talent route

GT 15.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the suitability and eligibility requirements are met for settlement on the Global Talent route the applicant will be granted settlement, otherwise the application will be refused.

GT 15.2. If the application is refused the person can apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR: Administrative Review.

 
 
 Dependants on the Global Talent route

 

 
 Validity requirements for a dependent partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route

GT 16.1. A person applying for entry clearance or permission to stay as a dependent partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route must apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified form as follows:

 
 
 Applicant
 Specified form
 

 
 
 
 EEA national with a chipped passport
 Either (as applicable): • Dependant partner or dependant child using the UK Immigration: ID Check app; or • the forms listed below for dependant applicants outside or inside the UK as relevant.
 

 
 Applicants outside the UK
 Dependant partner visa Dependant child visa
 

 
 Applicants inside the UK
 If the dependant is applying at the same time as the Global talent applicant, they can be included in the form “Global talent – stage 2” where the form allows dependants to be added. Otherwise: – Dependant partner – Dependant child
 

 

 
 GT 16.2. An application for entry clearance or permission to stay as a partner or child of a person on the Global Talent route must meet all the following requirements:
 
 (a) any fee and Immigration Health Charge must have been paid; and

 (b) the applicant must have provided biometrics when required; and

 (c) the applicant must have provided a passport or other travel document which satisfactorily establishes their identity and nationality; and

 (d) the applicant must be applying as partner or child of a person (P) who:
 
 (i) has made a valid application for entry clearance or permission to stay on the Global Talent route that has not been decided; or

 (ii) has entry clearance or permission to stay on the Global Talent route; or

 (iii) is settled or has become a British citizen, providing that P had permission on the Global Talent route when they settled and the applicant either had permission as their partner or child at that time, or the applicant is applying as a child of P and the applicant was born in the UK before P settled.

 
 

 
 

 

GT 16.3. A person applying as a dependent partner must be aged 18 or over on the date of application.

GT 16.4 DELETED.

 
 GT 16.5. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant must be in the UK on the date of application.

 GT 16.5ZA. If applying for permission to stay, the applicant must not have, or have last been granted, permission:
*(a) as a Visitor; or
 
 (b) as a Short-term Student; or

 (c) as a Parent of a Child Student; or

 (d) as a Seasonal Worker; or

 (e) as a Domestic Worker in a Private Household; or

 (f) outside the Immigration Rules.

 
 

 

 
 GT 16.5A. An applicant who is applying for permission to stay and has, or last had, permission as a Student, must fulfil one of the Conditions A or B below on the date of application:
 
 (a) Condition A: the applicant must have completed the course of study for which the Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies was assigned (or a course to which ST 27.3 of Appendix Student applies); or

 (b) Condition B: the applicant must:
 
 (i) be studying a full-time course of study leading to the award of a PhD with a higher education provider which has a track record of compliance; and

 (ii) have completed at least 24 months of study on that course.

 
 

 
 

 

GT 16.6. An application which does not meet all the validity requirements for a partner or child on the Global Talent route may be rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for a dependent partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route

GT 17.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under Part Suitability.

 
 GT 17.2. If applying for permission to stay the applicant must not be:
 
 (a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be disregarded; or

 (b) on immigration bail.

 
 

 

 
 
 Eligibility requirements for a dependent partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route

 

 
 Entry requirement for a dependent partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route

GT 18.1. A person seeking to come to the UK as a partner or child must apply for and obtain entry clearance as a partner or child on the Global Talent route before they arrive in the UK.

GT 18.2. A person applying for entry clearance as a partner or child on the Global Talent route must, if Appendix Tuberculosis applies, provide a valid medical certificate confirming that they have undergone screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this tuberculosis is not present in them.

Relationship requirements for a dependent partner on the Global Talent route

 
 GT 19.1. The applicant must be the partner of a person (P) and one of the following must apply:
 
 (a) P has permission on the Global Talent route; or

 (b) P is, at the same time, applying for (and is granted) permission on the Global Talent route; or

 (c) P is settled or has become a British citizen, providing P had permission on the Global Talent route and the applicant had permission as P’s partner at that time.

 
 

 

GT 19.2. The requirements of Appendix Relationship with Partner must be met.

GT 19.3. DELETED

GT 19.4. DELETED

Relationship requirement for a dependent child on the Global Talent route

 
 GT 20.1. DELETED.

 GT 20.2. DELETED.

 

Care requirement for a dependent child on the Global Talent route

GT 21.1. DELETED.

Age requirement for a dependent child on the Global Talent route

GT 22.1. DELETED.

GT 22.2. DELETED.

Requirements for a dependent child on the Global Talent route

 
 GT 22A.1. The applicant must meet the following requirements for a dependent child in Appendix Children:
 
 (a) relationship requirement: entry clearance and permission to stay; and

 (b) care requirement; and

 (c) age and independent life requirement.

 
 

 

Decision on an application as a dependent partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route

GT 23.1. If the decision maker is satisfied that all the suitability and eligibility requirements for a dependent partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route are met, the application will be granted, otherwise the application will be refused.

GT 23.2. If the application is refused, the person can apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR: Administrative Review.

Period of grant for a dependent partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route

 
 GT 24.1. A partner will be granted:
 
 (a) permission which ends on the same date as their partner’s permission on the Global Talent route; or

 (b) 3 years’ permission if the partner was (or is being) granted settlement on the Global Talent route.

 
 

 

GT 24.2. A child will be granted permission which ends on the same date as whichever of
their parents’ permission ends first, unless both parents have (or are being granted) settlement or British Citizenship, in which case the child will be granted permission for 3 years.

Conditions of grant for a dependent partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route

 
 GT 24.3. The grant will be subject to all the following conditions:
 
 (a) no access to public funds; and

 (b) work (including self-employment and voluntary work) is permitted, except as a professional sportsperson or sports coach; and

 (c) study is permitted, subject to the ATAS condition in Appendix ATAS, if the applicant is over age 18.

 (d) DELETED

 
 

 

 
 
 Settlement as a dependent partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route

 

 
 Validity requirements for settlement as a dependent partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route

GT 25.1. A person applying for settlement as a dependent partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route must apply online on the gov.uk website on the specified form, “Settle in the UK in various immigration categories: form SET(O)”.

 
 GT 25.2. An application for settlement as a dependent partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route must meet all the following requirements:
 
 (a) any fee must have been paid; and

 (b) the applicant must have provided biometrics when required; and

 (c) the applicant must have provided a passport or other travel document which satisfactorily establishes their identity and nationality; and

 (d) the applicant must be in the UK.

 (e) the applicant must be applying as a partner or child of a person (P) who:
 
 (i) has made a valid application for settlement on the Global Talent route and that application has not been decided; or

 (ii) is settled or has become a British citizen, providing P had permission on the Global Talent route when they settled and the applicant either had permission as their partner or child at that time or the applicant is applying as a child of P and the applicant was born in the UK before P settled.

 
 

 
 

 

GT 25.3. An application which does not meet the validity requirements for settlement as a partner or child on the Global Talent route may be rejected as invalid and not considered.

Suitability requirements for settlement as a dependent partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route

GT 26.1. The applicant must not fall for refusal under Part Suitability.

 
 GT 26.2. The applicant must not be:
 
 (a) in breach of immigration laws, except that where the Exceptions for overstayers section of Part Suitability applies, that period of overstaying will be disregarded; or

 (b) on immigration bail.

 
 

 

 
 
 Eligibility requirements for settlement as a dependent partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route

 

 
 Relationship requirement for settlement for a dependent partner or child on the Global Talent route

 
 GT 27.1. The applicant must be the partner or child of a person (P) where one of the following applies:
 
 (a) P is, at the same time, being granted settlement as a Global Talent; or

 (b) P is settled or has become a British citizen, providing P had permission as a Global Talent when they settled and the applicant either:
 
 i) had permission as P’s partner or child at that time; or

 ii) is applying as a child of P, and was born in the UK before P settled.

 
 

 
 

 

 
 GT 27.2. The applicant must either:
 
 (a) have last been granted permission as a dependent partner or dependent child of the person (P) in GT 27.1.

 (b) have been born in the UK and be applying as a child of the person (P) in GT 27.1.

 
 

 

 
 GT 27.3. If applying as a child, the applicant must meet the relationship requirement for settlement in Appendix Children.

 

GT 27.4. If applying as a partner, the requirements of Appendix Relationship with Partner must be met.

Care requirement for settlement as a dependent child on the Global Talent route

GT 28.1. DELETED.

Age requirement for settlement as a dependent child on the Global talent route

GT 29.1. DELETED.

GT 29.2. DELETED.

Requirements for settlement as a dependent child on the Global Talent route

 
 GT 29A.1. The applicant must meet the following requirements for a dependent child in Appendix Children:
 
 (a) care requirement; and

 (b) age and independent life requirement.

 
 

 

Qualifying period requirement for settlement as a dependent partner on the Global Talent route

GT 30.1. The applicant must have spent a continuous period of 5 years in the UK with permission as a dependent partner of the person (P) in GT 27.1.

Continuous residence requirement for settlement as a dependent partner of on the Global Talent route

GT 31.1. The applicant must meet the continuous resident requirement as set out in Appendix Continuous Residence during the period in GT 30.1.

English language requirement for a dependent partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route

GT 32.1. Unless an exemption applies, the applicant must show English language ability on the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages in speaking and listening to at least level B1.

GT 32.2. The applicant must show they meet the English language requirement as specified in Appendix English Language.

Knowledge of life in the UK requirement for settlement as a dependent partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route

GT 33.1 If the applicant is aged 18 or over on the date of application, they must meet the knowledge of Life in the UK requirement as set out in Appendix KOL UK.

Decision on an application for settlement as a dependent partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route

GT 34.1. If the decision maker is satisfied all the suitability and eligibility requirements are met for settlement as a dependent partner or dependent child on the Global Talent route, the applicant will be granted settlement, otherwise the application will be refused.

GT 34.2. If the application is refused the person can apply for an Administrative Review under Appendix AR: Administrative Review.

 

 
 

 

 
 Print this page

 

 
 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 Is this page useful?

 
 
 
 Maybe
 

 
 
 Yes this page is useful
 

 

 
 No this page is not useful
 

 
 

 

 
 Thank you for your feedback
 

 
 
 Report a problem with this page
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 Help us improve GOV.UK

 Don’t include personal or financial information like your National Insurance number or credit card details.

 
 This field is for robots only. Please leave blank
 
 

 
 
 What were you doing?

 

 

 
 
 What went wrong?

 

 

 

 Send

 
 Cancel
 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 Help us improve GOV.UK

 
 To help us improve GOV.UK, we’d like to know more about your visit today.
 Please fill in this survey (opens in a new tab and requires JavaScript).
 

 
 Cancel
 
 

 

 

 

 

